README.md, before:

# websockets-article
An article detailing what Websockets are and the options there are to implement them in web applications

# What are WebSockets?
WebSockets are a communication protocol that enables bidirectional, full-duplex communication between clients (such as web browsers) and servers over a single, long-lived TCP connection. They facilitate real-time data exchange and are commonly used in applications that require instant updates and low-latency communication.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server

    Client ->> Server: WebSocket Handshake (HTTP)
    Server -->> Client: Upgrade Required
    Client -->> Server: WebSocket Connection
    Client -->> Server: Bidirectional Data Transfer
    Server -->> Client: Bidirectional Data Transfer
```
1. **WebSocket Handshake (HTTP):** The WebSocket connection begins with a handshake between the client and server, initiated through an HTTP request. This handshake involves negotiating the WebSocket protocol upgrade.
2. **WebSocket Connection:** Once the handshake is completed and the connection is established, the protocol switches to a WebSocket connection. This connection remains open for the duration of the session.
3. **Bidirectional Data Transfer:** With the WebSocket connection established, both the client and server can send messages to each other at any time, without waiting for a request from the other party. This bidirectional communication allows for real-time data exchange.


# What are WebSockets used for?
WebSockets are employed in various applications requiring real-time communication and low-latency data transfer. Below are some common use cases:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant ClientX
    participant Server
    participant ClientY

    ClientX -->> Server: ClientX sends chat message, streams video/audio, moves player
    Server -->> ClientY: Server sends update to any other clients listening for changes
    ClientY -->> Server: ClientY sends chat message, streams video/audio, moves player
    Server -->> ClientX: Server sends update to any other clients listening for changes
```
1. **Real-time Chat Applications:** WebSockets are ideal for chat applications where users need to exchange messages instantly. With WebSockets, messages can be sent and received in real-time, providing a seamless chatting experience.
2. **Live Data Streaming:** WebSockets are utilized to stream live data (e.g., stock prices, weather updates) to clients in real-time. This enables users to receive continuous updates without the need to refresh the page.
3. **Multiplayer Online Games:** WebSockets find extensive usage in multiplayer online games to facilitate real-time communication between players and the game server. This allows players to interact with each other and see updates instantly as they occur in the game world.

Commit message:

added links to protocol and standard

README.md, after:

# websockets-article
An article detailing what Websockets are and the options there are to implement them in web applications

# What are WebSockets?
WebSockets are a communication protocol that enables bidirectional, full-duplex communication between clients (such as web browsers) and servers over a single, long-lived TCP connection. They facilitate real-time data exchange and are commonly used in applications that require instant updates and low-latency communication.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Server

    Client ->> Server: WebSocket Handshake (HTTP)
    Server -->> Client: Upgrade Required
    Client -->> Server: WebSocket Connection
    Client -->> Server: Bidirectional Data Transfer
    Server -->> Client: Bidirectional Data Transfer
```
1. **WebSocket Handshake (HTTP):** The WebSocket connection begins with a handshake between the client and server, initiated through an HTTP request. This handshake involves negotiating the WebSocket protocol upgrade.
2. **WebSocket Connection:** Once the handshake is completed and the connection is established, the protocol switches to a WebSocket connection. This connection remains open for the duration of the session.
3. **Bidirectional Data Transfer:** With the WebSocket connection established, both the client and server can send messages to each other at any time, without waiting for a request from the other party. This bidirectional communication allows for real-time data exchange.

### For more detailed information about the websocket protocol, please see the below resources

-- [RFC 6455 The WebSocket Protocol IETF](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455)
-- [WebSockets Living Standard](https://websockets.spec.whatwg.org/)


# What are WebSockets used for?
WebSockets are employed in various applications requiring real-time communication and low-latency data transfer. Below are some common use cases:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant ClientX
    participant Server
    participant ClientY

    ClientX -->> Server: ClientX sends chat message, streams video/audio, moves player
    Server -->> ClientY: Server sends update to any other clients listening for changes
    ClientY -->> Server: ClientY sends chat message, streams video/audio, moves player
    Server -->> ClientX: Server sends update to any other clients listening for changes
```
1. **Real-time Chat Applications:** WebSockets are ideal for chat applications where users need to exchange messages instantly. With WebSockets, messages can be sent and received in real-time, providing a seamless chatting experience.
2. **Live Data Streaming:** WebSockets are utilized to stream live data (e.g., stock prices, weather updates) to clients in real-time. This enables users to receive continuous updates without the need to refresh the page.
3. **Multiplayer Online Games:** WebSockets find extensive usage in multiplayer online games to facilitate real-time communication between players and the game server. This allows players to interact with each other and see updates instantly as they occur in the game world.
